Ah... website redesign... that rite of passage that all of us designers go through. It's never harder then when it's your own site you are refreshing.

This is the first time I'm significantly redoing my own website. The very first version I made was in the middle of design school. I am amazed at how crappy it looks now, but maybe I'm being too hard on myself. Our professor made us design our sites by slicing up PSDs. In 2010. PSD slices...in 2010. Yes that's crazy, but I did what I was told. I wasn't sure about whether this whole web thing was for me at that stage anyway. tl;dr: I don't really count this as my first website— it was a class project and I don't think anyone except me saw it. Here it is, and true to form, it's just images. 

Version 2: The previous one which lasted from early 2012 till today, when I switched to this new site. Built on WordPress (self-hosted), using a child-theme. My first real foray into front-end development. It was a good learning experience, but once I was done with it, I never did update it. I tend to become very dissatisfied with anything I have created a few weeks/months after it is finished. With this version, it was a few weeks. I wasn't showcasing the kind of work I was really interested in, because I didn't really have much of it. Frankly, I was still a little overwhelmed with PHP, and afraid to try and write a custom theme from scratch, which had been my intention till recently. The site wasn't responsive at all; this is around the time that responsive design was taking off. Not only was it not responsive, it was simply broken on mobile. As I threw myself into doing client work, I never took the time to fix the shambles.

Version 3: What you are seeing today. I wrote about the process of building it already, so I won't go into any more detail about it here.

One big decision I had to make was whether or not I should erase all signs of the earlier crappy versions from the internet. I ultimately decided against it, and to preserve (and resurrect version 1 from my backed up files!) it for posterity. More importantly, to preserve it as a reminder to myself and others— we all start somewhere at the bottom. We tend to get into this cycle of comparing ourselves to others in our field. All we see are snazzy websites that are just perfect. What we don't see is all the years of effort and the process that each designer went through to get to that stage.

I wish many other designers would preserve and show off their earlier efforts, much like Jason Santa Maria. It goes a long way in making newbies feel comfortable and hopeful— if they put in the effort, they too can be great! I know each iteration of my own site is going to be better than the last, the same as I want for each project I do. It helps to be honest about this process— and not make it look like you just woke up one day being the magically gifted designer you are today.
